---
type: "Framework Learn Page"
framework: "postgres"
source_repo: "https://github.com/postgres/postgres.git"
source_branch: "master"
source_path: "doc/src/sgml/func/func-uuid.sgml"
source_commit: "031904048aa22e7c70dc8e9c170e2743f9b0f090"
source_commit_short: "03190404"
source_commit_date: "2026-06-20T18:20:58+09:00"
generated_at: "2026-06-21T07:06:11Z"
---

## UUID Functions

UUID
generating

gen_random_uuid

uuidv4

uuidv7

uuid_extract_timestamp

uuid_extract_version

`func_uuid_gen_table` shows the PostgreSQL functions that can be used to generate UUIDs.

## UUID Generation Functions

Function

Description

Example(s)

`gen_random_uuid` ( ) uuid

`uuidv4` ( ) uuid

Generates a version 4 (random) UUID

`gen_random_uuid()` 5b30857f-0bfa-48b5-ac0b-5c64e28078d1

`uuidv4()` b42410ee-132f-42ee-9e4f-09a6485c95b8

`uuidv7` ( `shift` `interval` ) uuid

Generates a version 7 (time-ordered) UUID. The timestamp is computed using UNIX timestamp with millisecond precision + sub-millisecond timestamp + random. The optional parameter `shift` will shift the computed timestamp by the given `interval`.

`uuidv7()` 019535d9-3df7-79fb-b466-fa907fa17f9e

The `uuid-ossp` module provides additional functions that implement other standard algorithms for generating UUIDs.

`func_uuid_extract_table` shows the PostgreSQL functions that can be used to extract information from UUIDs.

## UUID Extraction Functions

Function

Description

Example(s)

`uuid_extract_timestamp` ( `uuid` ) timestamp with time zone

Extracts a `timestamp with time zone` from a UUID of version 1 or 7. For other versions, this function returns null. Note that the extracted timestamp is not necessarily exactly equal to the time the UUID was generated; this depends on the implementation that generated the UUID.

`uuid_extract_timestamp('019535d9-3df7-79fb-b466-zwspfa907fa17f9e'::uuid)` 2025-02-23 21:46:24.503-05

`uuid_extract_version` ( `uuid` ) smallint

Extracts the version from a UUID of one of the variants described by [RFC 9562](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9562). For other variants, this function returns null. For example, for a UUID generated by `gen_random_uuid()`, this function will return 4.

`uuid_extract_version('41db1265-8bc1-4ab3-992f-zwsp885799a4af1d'::uuid)` 4

`uuid_extract_version('019535d9-3df7-79fb-b466-zwspfa907fa17f9e'::uuid)` 7

PostgreSQL also provides the usual comparison operators shown in `functions-comparison-op-table` for UUIDs.

See `datatype-uuid` for details on the data type `uuid` in PostgreSQL.
