---
type: "Framework Learn Page"
framework: "redis"
source_repo: "https://github.com/redis/docs.git"
source_branch: "main"
source_path: "content/integrate/redis-data-integration/release-notes/rdi-1-6-7.md"
source_commit: "bc92ea237bbfc2117c870c904f1a3ca619073ef1"
source_commit_short: "bc92ea23"
source_commit_date: "2026-06-18T14:53:00-05:00"
generated_at: "2026-06-21T11:25:32Z"
---

---
Title: Redis Data Integration release notes 1.6.7 (May 2025)
alwaysopen: false
categories:
- docs
- operate
- rs
description: Installation on Kubernetes with a Helm chart. Improvements for installation on VMs.
linkTitle: 1.6.7 (May 2025)
toc: 'true'
weight: 985
---

> This maintenance release replaces the 1.6.6 release.

RDI’s mission is to help Redis customers sync Redis Enterprise with live data from their slow disk-based databases to:

- Meet the required speed and scale of read queries and provide an excellent and predictable user experience.
- Save resources and time when building pipelines and coding data transformations.
- Reduce the total cost of ownership by saving money on expensive database read replicas.

RDI keeps the Redis cache up to date with changes in the primary database, using a [_Change Data Capture (CDC)_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_data_capture) mechanism.
It also lets you _transform_ the data from relational tables into convenient and fast data structures that match your app's requirements. You specify the transformations using a configuration system, so no coding is required.

## Headlines

- Update the RDI API `/tables` and `/metadata` endpoints to filter the results by schema for MySQL and 
  MariaDB. Schema and Database are the same for these databases.

## Limitations

RDI can write data to a Redis Active-Active database. However, it doesn't support writing data to two or more Active-Active replicas. Writing data from RDI to several Active-Active replicas could easily harm data integrity as RDI is not synchronous with the source database commits.
