---
type: "Framework Learn Page"
framework: "postgres"
source_repo: "https://github.com/postgres/postgres.git"
source_branch: "master"
source_path: "doc/src/sgml/glossary.sgml"
source_commit: "031904048aa22e7c70dc8e9c170e2743f9b0f090"
source_commit_short: "03190404"
source_commit_date: "2026-06-20T18:20:58+09:00"
generated_at: "2026-06-21T07:06:11Z"
---

## Glossary

This is a list of terms and their meaning in the context of PostgreSQL and relational database systems in general.

ACID

Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability. This set of properties of database transactions is intended to guarantee validity in concurrent operation and even in event of errors, power failures, etc.

Aggregate function (routine)

A function that combines (aggregates) multiple input values, for example by counting, averaging or adding, yielding a single output value.

For more information, see `functions-aggregate`.

Access Method

Interfaces which PostgreSQL use in order to access data in tables and indexes. This abstraction allows for adding support for new types of data storage.

For more information, see `tableam` and `indexam`.

Analytic function

Analyze (operation)

The act of collecting statistics from data in tables and other relations to help the query planner to make decisions about how to execute queries.

(Don't confuse this term with the `ANALYZE` option to the `sql-explain` command.)

For more information, see `sql-analyze`.

Application time

In a temporal table, the dimension of time that represents when the entity described by the table changed (as opposed to the table itself).

For more information, see `ddl-temporal-tables`.

Asynchronous I/O
AIO

Asynchronous I/O

Asynchronous I/O (AIO) describes performing I/O in a non-blocking way (asynchronously), in contrast to synchronous I/O, which blocks for the entire duration of the I/O.

With AIO, starting an I/O operation is separated from waiting for the result of the operation, allowing multiple I/O operations to be initiated concurrently, as well as performing CPU heavy operations concurrently with I/O. The price for that increased concurrency is increased complexity.

Atomic

In reference to a datum: the fact that its value cannot be broken down into smaller components.

In reference to a database transaction: see atomicity.

Atomicity

The property of a transaction that either all its operations complete as a single unit or none do. In addition, if a system failure occurs during the execution of a transaction, no partial results are visible after recovery. This is one of the ACID properties.

Attribute

An element with a certain name and data type found within a tuple.

Autovacuum (process)

A set of background processes that routinely perform vacuum and analyze operations. The auxiliary process that coordinates the work and is always present (unless autovacuum is disabled) is known as the autovacuum launcher, and the processes that carry out the tasks are known as the autovacuum workers.

For more information, see `autovacuum`.

Auxiliary process

A process within an instance that is in charge of some specific background task for the instance. The auxiliary processes consist of the autovacuum launcher (but not the autovacuum workers), the background writer, the checkpointer, the data checksums worker, the data checksums worker launcher, the logger, the startup process, the WAL archiver, the WAL receiver (but not the WAL senders), the WAL summarizer, and the WAL writer.

Backend (process)

Process of an instance which acts on behalf of a client session and handles its requests.

(Don't confuse this term with the similar terms Background Worker or Background Writer).

Background worker (process)

Process within an instance, which runs system- or user-supplied code. Serves as infrastructure for several features in PostgreSQL, such as logical replication and parallel queries. In addition, Extensions can add custom background worker processes.

For more information, see `bgworker`.

Background writer (process)

An auxiliary process that writes dirty data pages from shared memory to the file system. It wakes up periodically, but works only for a short period in order to distribute its expensive I/O activity over time to avoid generating larger I/O peaks which could block other processes.

For more information, see `runtime-config-resource-background-writer`.

Base Backup

A binary copy of all database cluster files. It is generated by the tool `app-pgbasebackup`. In combination with WAL files it can be used as the starting point for recovery, log shipping, or streaming replication.

Bloat

Space in data pages which does not contain current row versions, such as unused (free) space or outdated row versions.

Bootstrap superuser

The first user initialized in a database cluster.

This user owns all system catalog tables in each database. It is also the role from which all granted permissions originate. Because of these things, this role may not be dropped.

This role also behaves as a normal database superuser, and its superuser status cannot be removed.

Buffer Access Strategy

Some operations will access a large number of pages. A Buffer Access Strategy helps to prevent these operations from evicting too many pages from shared buffers.

A Buffer Access Strategy sets up references to a limited number of shared buffers and reuses them circularly. When the operation requires a new page, a victim buffer is chosen from the buffers in the strategy ring, which may require flushing the page's dirty data and possibly also unflushed WAL to permanent storage.

Buffer Access Strategies are used for various operations such as sequential scans of large tables, `VACUUM`, `COPY`, `CREATE TABLE AS SELECT`, `ALTER TABLE`, `CREATE DATABASE`, `CREATE INDEX`, and `CLUSTER`.

Cast

A conversion of a datum from its current data type to another data type.

For more information, see `sql-createcast`.

Catalog

The SQL standard uses this term to indicate what is called a database in PostgreSQL's terminology.

(Don't confuse this term with system catalog).

For more information, see `manage-ag-overview`.

Check constraint

A type of constraint defined on a relation which restricts the values allowed in one or more attributes. The check constraint can make reference to any attribute of the same row in the relation, but cannot reference other rows of the same relation or other relations.

For more information, see `ddl-constraints`.

Checkpoint

A point in the WAL sequence at which it is guaranteed that the heap and index data files have been updated with all information from shared memory modified before that checkpoint; a checkpoint record is written and flushed to WAL to mark that point.

A checkpoint is also the act of carrying out all the actions that are necessary to reach a checkpoint as defined above. This process is initiated when predefined conditions are met, such as a specified amount of time has passed, or a certain volume of records has been written; or it can be invoked by the user with the command `CHECKPOINT`.

For more information, see `wal-configuration`.

Checkpointer (process)

An auxiliary process that is responsible for executing checkpoints.

Class (archaic)

Client (process)

Any process, possibly remote, that establishes a session by connecting to an instance to interact with a database.

Cluster owner

The operating system user that owns the data directory and under which the `postgres` process is run. It is required that this user exist prior to creating a new database cluster.

On operating systems with a `root` user, said user is not allowed to be the cluster owner.

Column

An attribute found in a table or view.

Commit

The act of finalizing a transaction within the database, which makes it visible to other transactions and assures its durability.

For more information, see `sql-commit`.

Concurrency

The concept that multiple independent operations happen within the database at the same time. In PostgreSQL, concurrency is controlled by the multiversion concurrency control mechanism.

Connection

An established line of communication between a client process and a backend process, usually over a network, supporting a session. This term is sometimes used as a synonym for session.

For more information, see `runtime-config-connection`.

Consistency

The property that the data in the database is always in compliance with integrity constraints. Transactions may be allowed to violate some of the constraints transiently before it commits, but if such violations are not resolved by the time it commits, such a transaction is automatically rolled back. This is one of the ACID properties.

Constraint

A restriction on the values of data allowed within a table, or in attributes of a domain.

For more information, see `ddl-constraints`.

Cumulative Statistics System

A system which, if enabled, accumulates statistical information about the instance's activities.

For more information, see `monitoring-stats`.

Data area

Data Checksums Worker

A background worker which enables data checksums in a specific database.

Data Checksums Worker Launcher

A background worker which starts data checksum worker processes for enabling data checksums in each database, or disables data checksums cluster-wide.

Database

A named collection of local SQL objects.

For more information, see `manage-ag-overview`.

Database cluster

A collection of databases and global SQL objects, and their common static and dynamic metadata. Sometimes referred to as a cluster. A database cluster is created using the `app-initdb` program.

In PostgreSQL, the term cluster is also sometimes used to refer to an instance. (Don't confuse this term with the SQL command `CLUSTER`.)

See also cluster owner, the operating-system owner of a cluster, and bootstrap superuser, the PostgreSQL owner of a cluster.

Database server

Database superuser

A role having superuser status (see `role-attributes`).

Frequently referred to as superuser.

Data directory

The base directory on the file system of a server that contains all data files and subdirectories associated with a database cluster (with the exception of tablespaces, and optionally WAL). The environment variable `PGDATA` is commonly used to refer to the data directory.

A cluster's storage space comprises the data directory plus any additional tablespaces.

For more information, see `storage-file-layout`.

Data page

The basic structure used to store relation data. All pages are of the same size. Data pages are typically stored on disk, each in a specific file, and can be read to shared buffers where they can be modified, becoming dirty. They become clean when written to disk. New pages, which initially exist in memory only, are also dirty until written.

Datum

The internal representation of one value of an SQL data type.

Delete

An SQL command which removes rows from a given table or relation.

For more information, see `sql-delete`.

Domain

A user-defined data type that is based on another underlying data type. It acts the same as the underlying type except for possibly restricting the set of allowed values.

For more information, see `domains`.

Durability

The assurance that once a transaction has been committed, the changes remain even after a system failure or crash. This is one of the ACID properties.

Epoch

Extension

A software add-on package that can be installed on an instance to get extra features.

For more information, see `extend-extensions`.

File segment

A physical file which stores data for a given relation. File segments are limited in size by a configuration value (typically 1 gigabyte), so if a relation exceeds that size, it is split into multiple segments.

For more information, see `storage-file-layout`.

(Don't confuse this term with the similar term WAL segment).

Foreign data wrapper

A means of representing data that is not contained in the local database so that it appears as if were in local table(s). With a foreign data wrapper it is possible to define a foreign server and foreign tables.

For more information, see `sql-createforeigndatawrapper`.

Foreign key

A type of constraint defined on one or more columns in a table which requires the value(s) in those columns to identify zero or one row in another (or, infrequently, the same) table.

Foreign server

A named collection of foreign tables which all use the same foreign data wrapper and have other configuration values in common.

For more information, see `sql-createserver`.

Foreign table (relation)

A relation which appears to have rows and columns similar to a regular table, but will forward requests for data through its foreign data wrapper, which will return result sets structured according to the definition of the foreign table.

For more information, see `sql-createforeigntable`.

Fork

Each of the separate segmented file sets in which a relation is stored. The main fork is where the actual data resides. There also exist two secondary forks for metadata: the free space map and the visibility map. Unlogged relations also have an init fork.

Free space map (fork)

A storage structure that keeps metadata about each data page of a table's main fork. The free space map entry for each page stores the amount of free space that's available for future tuples, and is structured to be efficiently searched for available space for a new tuple of a given size.

For more information, see `storage-fsm`.

Function (routine)

A type of routine that receives zero or more arguments, returns zero or more output values, and is constrained to run within one transaction. Functions are invoked as part of a query, for example via `SELECT`. Certain functions can return sets; those are called set-returning functions.

Functions can also be used for triggers to invoke.

For more information, see `sql-createfunction`.

GMT

Grant

An SQL command that is used to allow a user or role to access specific objects within the database.

For more information, see `sql-grant`.

GUC

Based on a short-hand for Grand Unified Configuration, the subsystem which controls server configuration, it is now a commonly used term for the individual configuration parameters themselves. Typically meant to refer to user settable parameters, it can also refer to internal or build-time parameters.

For information on working with configuration parameters, see `config-setting`.

Heap

Contains the values of row attributes (i.e., the data) for a relation. The heap is realized within one or more file segments in the relation's main fork.

Host

A computer that communicates with other computers over a network. This is sometimes used as a synonym for server. It is also used to refer to a computer where client processes run.

Index (relation)

A relation that contains data derived from a table or materialized view. Its internal structure supports fast retrieval of and access to the original data.

For more information, see `sql-createindex`.

Incremental backup

A special base backup that for some files may contain only those pages that were modified since a previous backup, as opposed to the full contents of every file. Like base backups, it is generated by the tool `app-pgbasebackup`.

To restore incremental backups the tool `app-pgcombinebackup` is used, which combines incremental backups with a base backup. Afterwards, recovery can use WAL to bring the database cluster to a consistent state.

For more information, see `backup-incremental-backup`.

Input/Output
I/O

Input/Output (I/O) describes the communication between a program and peripheral devices. In the context of database systems, I/O commonly, but not exclusively, refers to interaction with storage devices or the network.

Insert

An SQL command used to add new data into a table.

For more information, see `sql-insert`.

Instance

A group of backend and auxiliary processes that communicate using a common shared memory area. One postmaster process manages the instance; one instance manages exactly one database cluster with all its databases. Many instances can run on the same server as long as their TCP ports do not conflict.

The instance handles all key features of a DBMS: read and write access to files and shared memory, assurance of the ACID properties, connections to client processes, privilege verification, crash recovery, replication, etc.

Isolation

The property that the effects of a transaction are not visible to concurrent transactions before it commits. This is one of the ACID properties.

For more information, see `transaction-iso`.

Join

An operation and SQL keyword used in queries for combining data from multiple relations.

Key

A means of identifying a row within a table or other relation by values contained within one or more attributes in that relation.

Lock

A mechanism that allows a process to limit or prevent simultaneous access to a resource.

Log file

Log files contain human-readable text lines about events. Examples include login failures, long-running queries, etc.

For more information, see `logfile-maintenance`.

Logged

A table is considered logged if changes to it are sent to the WAL. By default, all regular tables are logged. A table can be specified as unlogged either at creation time or via the `ALTER TABLE` command.

Logger (process)

An auxiliary process which, if enabled, writes information about database events into the current log file. When reaching certain time- or volume-dependent criteria, a new log file is created. Also called syslogger.

For more information, see `runtime-config-logging`.

Logical replication cluster

A set of publisher and subscriber instances with the publisher instance replicating changes to the subscriber instance.

Log record

Archaic term for a WAL record.

Log sequence number
LSN

Byte offset into the WAL, increasing monotonically with each new WAL record.

For more information, see pg_lsn and `wal-internals`.

LSN

Master (server)

Materialized

The property that some information has been pre-computed and stored for later use, rather than computing it on-the-fly.

This term is used in materialized view, to mean that the data derived from the view's query is stored on disk separately from the sources of that data.

This term is also used to refer to some multi-step queries to mean that the data resulting from executing a given step is stored in memory (with the possibility of spilling to disk), so that it can be read multiple times by another step.

Materialized view (relation)

A relation that is defined by a `SELECT` statement (just like a view), but stores data in the same way that a table does. It cannot be modified via `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, or `MERGE` operations.

For more information, see `sql-creatematerializedview`.

Merge

An SQL command used to conditionally add, modify, or remove rows in a given table, using data from a source relation.

For more information, see `sql-merge`.

Multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)

A mechanism designed to allow several transactions to be reading and writing the same rows without one process causing other processes to stall. In PostgreSQL, MVCC is implemented by creating copies (versions) of tuples as they are modified; after transactions that can see the old versions terminate, those old versions need to be removed.

Null

A concept of non-existence that is a central tenet of relational database theory. It represents the absence of a definite value.

Optimizer

Parallel query

The ability to handle parts of executing a query to take advantage of parallel processes on servers with multiple CPUs.

Partition

One of several disjoint (not overlapping) subsets of a larger set.

In reference to a partitioned table: One of the tables that each contain part of the data of the partitioned table, which is said to be the parent. The partition is itself a table, so it can also be queried directly; at the same time, a partition can sometimes be a partitioned table, allowing hierarchies to be created.

In reference to a window function in a query, a partition is a user-defined criterion that identifies which neighboring rows of the query's result set can be considered by the function.

Partitioned table (relation)

A relation that is in semantic terms the same as a table, but whose storage is distributed across several partitions.

Postmaster (process)

The very first process of an instance. It starts and manages the auxiliary processes and creates backend processes on demand.

For more information, see `server-start`.

Primary key

A special case of a unique constraint defined on a table or other relation that also guarantees that all of the attributes within the primary key do not have null values. As the name implies, there can be only one primary key per table, though it is possible to have multiple unique constraints that also have no null-capable attributes.

Primary (server)

When two or more databases are linked via replication, the server that is considered the authoritative source of information is called the primary, also known as a master.

Procedure (routine)

A type of routine. Their distinctive qualities are that they do not return values, and that they are allowed to make transactional statements such as `COMMIT` and `ROLLBACK`. They are invoked via the `CALL` command.

For more information, see `sql-createprocedure`.

Query

A request sent by a client to a backend, usually to return results or to modify data on the database.

Query planner

The part of PostgreSQL that is devoted to determining (planning) the most efficient way to execute queries. Also known as query optimizer, optimizer, or simply planner.

Record

Recycling

Referential integrity

A means of restricting data in one relation by a foreign key so that it must have matching data in another relation.

Relation

Mathematically, a relation is a set of tuples; this is the sense meant in the term "relational database".

In PostgreSQL, "relation" is commonly used to mean an SQL object that has a name and a list of attributes defined in a specific order. Tables, sequences, views, foreign tables, materialized views, composite types, and indexes are all relations. A relation in this sense is a container or a descriptor for a set of tuples.

Class is an alternative but archaic term. The system catalog pg_class holds an entry for each PostgreSQL relation.

Replica (server)

A database that is paired with a primary database and is maintaining a copy of some or all of the primary database's data. The foremost reasons for doing this are to allow for greater access to that data, and to maintain availability of the data in the event that the primary becomes unavailable.

Replication

The act of reproducing data on one server onto another server called a replica. This can take the form of physical replication, where all file changes from one server are copied verbatim, or logical replication where a defined subset of data changes are conveyed using a higher-level representation.

Restartpoint

A variant of a checkpoint performed on a replica.

For more information, see `wal-configuration`.

Result set

A relation transmitted from a backend process to a client upon the completion of an SQL command, usually a `SELECT` but it can be an `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, or `MERGE` command if the `RETURNING` clause is specified.

The fact that a result set is a relation means that a query can be used in the definition of another query, becoming a subquery.

Revoke

A command to prevent access to a named set of database objects for a named list of roles.

For more information, see `sql-revoke`.

Role

A collection of access privileges to the instance. Roles are themselves a privilege that can be granted to other roles. This is often done for convenience or to ensure completeness when multiple users need the same privileges.

For more information, see `sql-createrole`.

Rollback

A command to undo all of the operations performed since the beginning of a transaction.

For more information, see `sql-rollback`.

Routine

A defined set of instructions stored in the database system that can be invoked for execution. A routine can be written in a variety of programming languages. Routines can be functions (including set-returning functions and trigger functions), aggregate functions, and procedures.

Many routines are already defined within PostgreSQL itself, but user-defined ones can also be added.

Row

Savepoint

A special mark in the sequence of steps in a transaction. Data modifications after this point in time may be reverted to the time of the savepoint.

For more information, see `sql-savepoint`.

Schema

A schema is a namespace for SQL objects, which all reside in the same database. Each SQL object must reside in exactly one schema.

All system-defined SQL objects reside in schema `pg_catalog`.

More generically, the term schema is used to mean all data descriptions (table definitions, constraints, comments, etc.) for a given database or subset thereof.

For more information, see `ddl-schemas`.

Segment

Select

The SQL command used to request data from a database. Normally, `SELECT` commands are not expected to modify the database in any way, but it is possible that functions invoked within the query could have side effects that do modify data.

For more information, see `sql-select`.

Sequence (relation)

A type of relation that is used to generate values. Typically the generated values are sequential non-repeating numbers. They are commonly used to generate surrogate primary key values.

Server

A computer on which PostgreSQL instances run. The term server denotes real hardware, a container, or a virtual machine.

This term is sometimes used to refer to an instance or to a host.

Session

A state that allows a client and a backend to interact, communicating over a connection.

Shared memory

RAM which is used by the processes common to an instance. It mirrors parts of database files, provides a transient area for WAL records, and stores additional common information. Note that shared memory belongs to the complete instance, not to a single database.

The largest part of shared memory is known as shared buffers and is used to mirror part of data files, organized into pages. When a page is modified, it is called a dirty page until it is written back to the file system.

For more information, see `runtime-config-resource-memory`.

SQL object

Any object that can be created with a `CREATE` command. Most objects are specific to one database, and are commonly known as local objects.

Most local objects reside in a specific schema in their containing database, such as relations (all types), routines (all types), data types, etc. The names of such objects of the same type in the same schema are enforced to be unique.

There also exist local objects that do not reside in schemas; some examples are extensions, data type casts, and foreign data wrappers. The names of such objects of the same type are enforced to be unique within the database.

Other object types, such as roles, tablespaces, replication origins, subscriptions for logical replication, and databases themselves are not local SQL objects since they exist entirely outside of any specific database; they are called global objects. The names of such objects are enforced to be unique within the whole database cluster.

For more information, see `manage-ag-overview`.

SQL standard

A series of documents that define the SQL language.

Standby (server)

Startup process

An auxiliary process that replays WAL during crash recovery and in a physical replica.

(The name is historical: the startup process was named before replication was implemented; the name refers to its task as it relates to the server startup following a crash.)

Superuser

As used in this documentation, it is a synonym for database superuser.

System catalog

A collection of tables which describe the structure of all SQL objects of the instance. The system catalog resides in the schema `pg_catalog`. These tables contain data in internal representation and are not typically considered useful for user examination; a number of user-friendlier views, also in schema `pg_catalog`, offer more convenient access to some of that information, while additional tables and views exist in schema `information_schema` (see `information-schema`) that expose some of the same and additional information as mandated by the SQL standard.

For more information, see `ddl-schemas`.

System time

In a temporal table, the dimension of time that represents when the table itself was changed (as opposed to the entity the table describes). Often used for auditing, compliance, and debugging.

For more information, see `ddl-temporal-tables`.

Table

A collection of tuples having a common data structure (the same number of attributes, in the same order, having the same name and type per position). A table is the most common form of relation in PostgreSQL.

For more information, see `sql-createtable`.

Tablespace

A named location on the server file system. All SQL objects which require storage beyond their definition in the system catalog must belong to a single tablespace. Initially, a database cluster contains a single usable tablespace which is used as the default for all SQL objects, called `pg_default`.

For more information, see `manage-ag-tablespaces`.

Temporal leftovers

After a temporal update or delete, the portion of history that was not updated/deleted. When using ranges to track application time, there may be zero, one, or two stretches of history that were not updated/deleted (before and/or after the portion that was updated/deleted). New rows are automatically inserted into the table to preserve that history. A single multirange can accommodate the untouched history before and after the update/delete, so there will be only zero or one leftover.

Temporal table

Tables that track application time or system time (or both). Not to be confused with temporary tables.

For more information, see `ddl-temporal-tables`.

Temporary table

Tables that exist either for the lifetime of a session or a transaction, as specified at the time of creation. The data in them is not visible to other sessions, and is not logged. Temporary tables are often used to store intermediate data for a multi-step operation.

For more information, see `sql-createtable`.

TOAST

A mechanism by which large attributes of table rows are split and stored in a secondary table, called the TOAST table. Each relation with large attributes has its own TOAST table.

For more information, see `storage-toast`.

Transaction

A combination of commands that must act as a single atomic command: they all succeed or all fail as a single unit, and their effects are not visible to other sessions until the transaction is complete, and possibly even later, depending on the isolation level.

For more information, see `transaction-iso`.

Transaction ID

The numerical, unique, sequentially-assigned identifier that each transaction receives when it first causes a database modification. Frequently abbreviated as xid. When stored on disk, xids are only 32-bits wide, so only approximately four billion write transaction IDs can be generated; to permit the system to run for longer than that, epochs are used, also 32 bits wide. When the counter reaches the maximum xid value, it starts over at `3` (values under that are reserved) and the epoch value is incremented by one. In some contexts, the epoch and xid values are considered together as a single 64-bit value; see `transaction-id` for more details.

For more information, see `datatype-oid`.

Transactions per second (TPS)

Average number of transactions that are executed per second, totaled across all sessions active for a measured run. This is used as a measure of the performance characteristics of an instance.

Trigger

A function which can be defined to execute whenever a certain operation (`INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, `TRUNCATE`) is applied to a relation. A trigger executes within the same transaction as the statement which invoked it, and if the function fails, then the invoking statement also fails.

For more information, see `sql-createtrigger`.

Tuple

A collection of attributes in a fixed order. That order may be defined by the table (or other relation) where the tuple is contained, in which case the tuple is often called a row. It may also be defined by the structure of a result set, in which case it is sometimes called a record.

Unique constraint

A type of constraint defined on a relation which restricts the values allowed in one or a combination of columns so that each value or combination of values can only appear once in the relation -- that is, no other row in the relation contains values that are equal to those.

Because null values are not considered equal to each other, multiple rows with null values are allowed to exist without violating the unique constraint.

Unlogged

The property of certain relations that the changes to them are not reflected in the WAL. This disables replication and crash recovery for these relations.

The primary use of unlogged tables is for storing transient work data that must be shared across processes.

Temporary tables are always unlogged.

Update

An SQL command used to modify rows that may already exist in a specified table. It cannot create or remove rows.

For more information, see `sql-update`.

User

A role that has the login privilege (see `role-attributes`).

User mapping

The translation of login credentials in the local database to credentials in a remote data system defined by a foreign data wrapper.

For more information, see `sql-createusermapping`.

UTC

Universal Coordinated Time, the primary global time reference, approximately the time prevailing at the zero meridian of longitude. Often but inaccurately referred to as GMT (Greenwich Mean Time).

Vacuum

The process of removing outdated tuple versions from tables or materialized views, and other closely related processing required by PostgreSQL's implementation of MVCC. This can be initiated through the use of the `VACUUM` command, but can also be handled automatically via autovacuum processes.

For more information, see `routine-vacuuming` .

View

A relation that is defined by a `SELECT` statement, but has no storage of its own. Any time a query references a view, the definition of the view is substituted into the query as if the user had typed it as a subquery instead of the name of the view.

For more information, see `sql-createview`.

Visibility map (fork)

A storage structure that keeps metadata about each data page of a table's main fork. The visibility map entry for each page stores two bits: the first one (`all-visible`) indicates that all tuples in the page are visible to all transactions. The second one (`all-frozen`) indicates that all tuples in the page are marked frozen.

WAL

WAL archiver (process)

An auxiliary process which, if enabled, saves copies of WAL files for the purpose of creating backups or keeping replicas current.

For more information, see `continuous-archiving`.

WAL file

Also known as WAL segment or WAL segment file. Each of the sequentially-numbered files that provide storage space for WAL. The files are all of the same predefined size and are written in sequential order, interspersing changes as they occur in multiple simultaneous sessions. If the system crashes, the files are read in order, and each of the changes is replayed to restore the system to the state it was in before the crash.

Each WAL file can be released after a checkpoint writes all the changes in it to the corresponding data files. Releasing the file can be done either by deleting it, or by changing its name so that it will be used in the future, which is called recycling.

For more information, see `wal-internals`.

WAL record

A low-level description of an individual data change. It contains sufficient information for the data change to be re-executed (replayed) in case a system failure causes the change to be lost. WAL records use a non-printable binary format.

For more information, see `wal-internals`.

WAL receiver (process)

An auxiliary process that runs on a replica to receive WAL from the primary server for replay by the startup process.

For more information, see `warm-standby`.

WAL segment

WAL sender (process)

A special backend process that streams WAL over a network. The receiving end can be a WAL receiver in a replica, `app-pgreceivewal`, or any other client program that speaks the replication protocol.

WAL summarizer (process)

An auxiliary process that summarizes WAL data for incremental backups.

For more information, see `runtime-config-wal-summarization`.

WAL writer (process)

An auxiliary process that writes WAL records from shared memory to WAL files.

For more information, see `runtime-config-wal`.

Window function (routine)

A type of function used in a query that applies to a partition of the query's result set; the function's result is based on values found in rows of the same partition or frame.

All aggregate functions can be used as window functions, but window functions can also be used to, for example, give ranks to each of the rows in the partition. Also known as analytic functions.

For more information, see `tutorial-window`.

Write-ahead log

The journal that keeps track of the changes in the database cluster as user- and system-invoked operations take place. It comprises many individual WAL records written sequentially to WAL files.
